Hey Johannes, 

I wanted to mention one other thing to you that I was thinking about earlier. I don't think the bottleneck at alethio right now is in having enough horsepower in research and pure data science. For one, you have a PhD in a technical field, and though you are often too busy with high-level stuff to work on the data science regularly, you are definitely an expert on the blockchain and ontological theory that Alethio is centered around, not to mention a very experienced programmer. Also, (and forgive my lack of modesty for the moment) I have worked as a data science researcher for 4-5 years, and have held the position of "senior/lead data scientist" twice before, where I led teams of other data scientists on several projects, and guided the vision and theory of the project. I also have access to the resources of a top-tier math school for at least the next 2-3 years, which we can always draw upon if necessary.

My point is that even as it stands right now, I am fairly confident that we can solve virtually any abstract math/software (read: data science) problem we are likely to encounter in the short-term. What I am less confident about is having these solutions taken seriously, socialized, validated, and eventually implemented. Perhaps I have not done enough to gain confidence in my ability to identify, formulate, and solve problems precisely and quickly. And I will work to change that. One thing that may help for you to know is that I am absolutely open to having my ideas torn apart by you or anyone else at any time -- having done a good amount of research with extremely smart people, it is something I'm very comfortable with :)  But we can't know if a given idea is sound unless we assume a high standard, discuss it, modify it if necessary, socialize it to the dev team, and then test it. 

This is why I personally do not think we need another senior data scientist as much as someone who can play the role of a manager, who spans both the dev team and datascience teams. Unlike you, they would not have to deal with all of the very high-level stuff, and could instead focus on communicating with both teams on a daily basis. To give some evidence to this idea, I would point out that something like the anomaly score models could probably be accomplished by an entry-level data scientist. But no one has checked in on either of those models since they were developed, validated them, or started to provide the infrastructure to implement them in production. Other ideas that are more "sophisticated" -- such as efficient label propagation in spark, efficient calculation of all shortest paths with an efficient update algorithm, or efficient calclation of maxmin -- while well within our collective skillset in data science, are still out of scope until we address our current problem, which I think is having better communication and process. 

That's just my two cents, and I know my opinion may diverge from yours. I just wanted to share my thoughts on it. Please let me know what you think!

Best,

Paul